README.md, before:

# vue-3-simple-context-menu

Fork of [vue-simple-context-menu](https://github.com/johndatserakis/vue-simple-context-menu) with Vue 3 support.

Useful if you were previously using vue-simple-context-menu in a Vue 2 project and want to upgrase to Vue 3 without hassle - you should be able to switch to this npm package and update import statements, and apart from that this should be 100% compatible with your existing code.

Simple context-menu component built for Vue. Works well with both left and right clicks. Nothing too fancy, just works and is simple to use.

<p align="left">
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/vue-simple-context-menu"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/vue-3-simple-context-menu.svg" alt="NPM Version"></a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/vue-3-simple-context-menu"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/vue-3-simple-context-menu.svg" alt="NPM Downloads"></a>
  <a href="http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg" alt="License"></a>
</p>

### Demo

[View demo](https://johndatserakis.github.io/vue-simple-context-menu/)

[View on npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vue-3-simple-context-menu)

[View on GitHub](https://github.com/danielelkington/vue-simple-context-menu)

### Install

```
# npm
npm i vue-3-simple-context-menu

# yarn
yarn add vue-3-simple-context-menu
```

Or you can include it through the browser at the bottom of your page along with the css:

```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/vue-3-simple-context-menu/dist/vue-simple-context-menu.min.js"></script>

<link
  rel="stylesheet"
  type="text/css"
  href="https://unpkg.com/vue-3-simple-context-menu/dist/vue-simple-context-menu.css"
/>
```

### About

Just a simple little menu to be shown where a click happens - closes after use automatically by clicking an option or outside of the menu. Multiple menus are supported - just make sure to use a unique string as your `elementId` prop value.

A nice feature that comes baked in is the menu placement after a click - it sits just ever so slightly under your click location - so that any hover style you had on the item that was clicked gets removed nicely. I modeled it after the macOS right click menu.

### Usage Example

```css
/* css import for when you want to import the component css into your css file/files */
@import "/path/to/node_modules/vue-3-simple-context-menu.css";
```

```js
// css import for when you're importing the css directly in your js
import "vue-3-simple-context-menu/dist/vue-simple-context-menu.css";
import VueSimpleContextMenu from "vue-3-simple-context-menu";

Vue.component("vue-simple-context-menu", VueSimpleContextMenu);
```

```html
<!-- This is a basic use case where you have an array of items that you want
to allow to be clicked. In this case, `items` is an array of objects.
Each item has a click event that ties to a function. See the demo for a full example (with multiple menus as well). -->
<div class="item-wrapper">
  <div
    v-for="item in items"
    @click.prevent.stop="handleClick($event, item)"
    class="item-wrapper__item"
  >
    {{item.name}}
  </div>
</div>

<!-- Make sure you add the `ref` attribute, as that is what gives you the ability
to open the menu. -->
<vue-simple-context-menu
  :elementId="'myUniqueId'"
  :options="options"
  :ref="'vueSimpleContextMenu'"
  @option-clicked="optionClicked"
/>
```

```js
handleClick (event, item) {
  this.$refs.vueSimpleContextMenu.showMenu(event, item)
}


optionClicked (event) {
  window.alert(JSON.stringify(event))
}
```

Note - you must pass the click event-info variable to the `showMenu()` function because that's how we know where to show the menu.

Note - make sure to use `@click.prevent.stop` (or `@contextmenu.prevent.stop` for right click) when setting up the click handler.

### Props

| prop            | type   | description                                                                                  | required |
| --------------- | ------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| `elementId`     | String | Unique String that acts as the id of your menu.                                              | Yes      |
| `options`       | Array  | Array of menu options to show. Component will use the `name` parameter as the label.         | Yes      |
| `options.name`  | Array  | Label for the option.                                                                        | Yes      |
| `options.class` | String | A custom class that will be applied to the option.                                           | No       |
| `options.type`  | String | Only one possible value at the moment - `divider`. Pass this to set the object as a divider. | No       |
| `ref`           | String | Unique String that allows you to show the menu on command.                                   | Yes      |

### Methods

| method     | parameters                        | description                                                          |
| ---------- | --------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `showMenu` | event (MouseEvent), item (Object) | Used to show the menu. Make sure to pass a MouseEvent and an Object. |

### Events

| event            | value  | description                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ---------------- | ------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `option-clicked` | Object | When a menu item is clicked the component will emit an event with a value containing the clicked item and the menu option that was clicked. Register for this event to capture the selection result. |
| `menu-closed`    |        | Emitted when the menu is closed                                                                                                                                                                      |

### SASS Structure

```scss
.vue-simple-context-menu {
  &--active {
  }

  &__item {
    &:hover {
    }
  }

  &__divider {
  }
}
```

### Development

```bash
# install dependencies
npm install

# serve with hot reload
npm run watch

# run the tests
npm run test

# build demo page
npm run build:example

# build library
npm run build:library

# build everything and run tests
npm run build
```

### Other

Go ahead and fork the project! Submit an issue if needed. Have fun!

### Thank You

Influenced by [Lucas Calazans](https://codepen.io/lucascalazans)'s [pen](https://codepen.io/lucascalazans/pen/ALvVVw). Go ahead and check out his other work.

### License

[MIT](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Packaged with a mixture of [vue-lib-template](https://github.com/biigpongsatorn/vue-lib-template) and [vue-sfc-rollup](https://github.com/team-innovation/vue-sfc-rollup).

Commit message:

Indicate this library should not be used

README.md, after:

# vue-3-simple-context-menu (UNMAINTAINED)

Fork of [vue-simple-context-menu](https://github.com/johndatserakis/vue-simple-context-menu) with Vue 3 support.

**Unmaintained - please do not use this library. Instead use v4.0.0+ of the [original library](https://github.com/johndatserakis/vue-simple-context-menu) for Vue 3 support.**

~~Useful if you were previously using vue-simple-context-menu in a Vue 2 project and want to upgrase to Vue 3 without hassle - you should be able to switch to this npm package and update import statements, and apart from that this should be 100% compatible with your existing code.~~

Simple context-menu component built for Vue. Works well with both left and right clicks. Nothing too fancy, just works and is simple to use.

<p align="left">
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/vue-simple-context-menu"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/vue-3-simple-context-menu.svg" alt="NPM Version"></a>
  <a href="https://www.npmjs.com/package/vue-3-simple-context-menu"><img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/vue-3-simple-context-menu.svg" alt="NPM Downloads"></a>
  <a href="http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg" alt="License"></a>
</p>

### Demo

[View demo](https://johndatserakis.github.io/vue-simple-context-menu/)

[View on npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/vue-3-simple-context-menu)

[View on GitHub](https://github.com/danielelkington/vue-simple-context-menu)

### Install

```
# npm
npm i vue-3-simple-context-menu

# yarn
yarn add vue-3-simple-context-menu
```

Or you can include it through the browser at the bottom of your page along with the css:

```html
<script src="https://unpkg.com/vue-3-simple-context-menu/dist/vue-simple-context-menu.min.js"></script>

<link
  rel="stylesheet"
  type="text/css"
  href="https://unpkg.com/vue-3-simple-context-menu/dist/vue-simple-context-menu.css"
/>
```

### About

Just a simple little menu to be shown where a click happens - closes after use automatically by clicking an option or outside of the menu. Multiple menus are supported - just make sure to use a unique string as your `elementId` prop value.

A nice feature that comes baked in is the menu placement after a click - it sits just ever so slightly under your click location - so that any hover style you had on the item that was clicked gets removed nicely. I modeled it after the macOS right click menu.

### Usage Example

```css
/* css import for when you want to import the component css into your css file/files */
@import "/path/to/node_modules/vue-3-simple-context-menu.css";
```

```js
// css import for when you're importing the css directly in your js
import "vue-3-simple-context-menu/dist/vue-simple-context-menu.css";
import VueSimpleContextMenu from "vue-3-simple-context-menu";

Vue.component("vue-simple-context-menu", VueSimpleContextMenu);
```

```html
<!-- This is a basic use case where you have an array of items that you want
to allow to be clicked. In this case, `items` is an array of objects.
Each item has a click event that ties to a function. See the demo for a full example (with multiple menus as well). -->
<div class="item-wrapper">
  <div
    v-for="item in items"
    @click.prevent.stop="handleClick($event, item)"
    class="item-wrapper__item"
  >
    {{item.name}}
  </div>
</div>

<!-- Make sure you add the `ref` attribute, as that is what gives you the ability
to open the menu. -->
<vue-simple-context-menu
  :elementId="'myUniqueId'"
  :options="options"
  :ref="'vueSimpleContextMenu'"
  @option-clicked="optionClicked"
/>
```

```js
handleClick (event, item) {
  this.$refs.vueSimpleContextMenu.showMenu(event, item)
}


optionClicked (event) {
  window.alert(JSON.stringify(event))
}
```

Note - you must pass the click event-info variable to the `showMenu()` function because that's how we know where to show the menu.

Note - make sure to use `@click.prevent.stop` (or `@contextmenu.prevent.stop` for right click) when setting up the click handler.

### Props

| prop            | type   | description                                                                                  | required |
| --------------- | ------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- |
| `elementId`     | String | Unique String that acts as the id of your menu.                                              | Yes      |
| `options`       | Array  | Array of menu options to show. Component will use the `name` parameter as the label.         | Yes      |
| `options.name`  | Array  | Label for the option.                                                                        | Yes      |
| `options.class` | String | A custom class that will be applied to the option.                                           | No       |
| `options.type`  | String | Only one possible value at the moment - `divider`. Pass this to set the object as a divider. | No       |
| `ref`           | String | Unique String that allows you to show the menu on command.                                   | Yes      |

### Methods

| method     | parameters                        | description                                                          |
| ---------- | --------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `showMenu` | event (MouseEvent), item (Object) | Used to show the menu. Make sure to pass a MouseEvent and an Object. |

### Events

| event            | value  | description                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| ---------------- | ------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `option-clicked` | Object | When a menu item is clicked the component will emit an event with a value containing the clicked item and the menu option that was clicked. Register for this event to capture the selection result. |
| `menu-closed`    |        | Emitted when the menu is closed                                                                                                                                                                      |

### SASS Structure

```scss
.vue-simple-context-menu {
  &--active {
  }

  &__item {
    &:hover {
    }
  }

  &__divider {
  }
}
```

### Development

```bash
# install dependencies
npm install

# serve with hot reload
npm run watch

# run the tests
npm run test

# build demo page
npm run build:example

# build library
npm run build:library

# build everything and run tests
npm run build
```

### Other

Go ahead and fork the project! Submit an issue if needed. Have fun!

### Thank You

Influenced by [Lucas Calazans](https://codepen.io/lucascalazans)'s [pen](https://codepen.io/lucascalazans/pen/ALvVVw). Go ahead and check out his other work.

### License

[MIT](http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)

Packaged with a mixture of [vue-lib-template](https://github.com/biigpongsatorn/vue-lib-template) and [vue-sfc-rollup](https://github.com/team-innovation/vue-sfc-rollup).
